(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(NARRATOR READING)
Long Live the Queen.
(LAUGHS CUNNINGLY)
Now we've got you.
And your cubs.
Go. Run through
the mountain pass.
You'll be safe
on the other side.
But what about you, Mom?
I'll be right
behind you.
Now, go.
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
Get those little tigers
before they reach
the Tree of Life.
Yes, Mama.
(GROWLS)
No!
Going somewhere?
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
Ugh! (GROANS)
(GROWLING)
(ROARS)
(GROWLS)
(INTENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
(LAUGHS WICKEDLY)
I gotcha now.
KION: Leave those cubs alone,
Chuluun.
I was just about
to do that.
Night Pride.
Lion Guard.
Together.
(DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING)
Kion,
have Bunga and Beshte
help the cubs.
Right. Guys?
BESHTE: Got it.
Zuka Zama!
(GROWLING)
Aw, look how cute
their stripes are.
(GROWLS)
And how sharp
their teeth are.
Don't worry,
little guys.
We're here
to help you get
to the Tree of Life.
But what about our mom?
We're gonna
help her too.
Come on.
You'll be safe with us.
(GROWLING)
(ROARS) Makucha!
Kion?
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
Nirmala,
check on the tiger.
Surak, Baliyo,
with me.
(GROWLS)
Ha! You missed.
FULI: I won't.
Huh. Get off.
(ROARS)
Lada'i!
Ugh!
(GROANS)
(SIGHS) I'm going. I'm going.
(GRUNTS)
Ugh.
(GRUNTING)
(GROWLS)
(GROWLS) Enough.
There's too many of them.
It's not worth it.
(GRUNTS)
ORA: Wait for me.
Ah. (SIGHS)
MAMA BINTURONG:
You win this time,
but the next animal
seeking refuge
at the Tree of Life
won't be so lucky.
Arama karo.
Relax.
You're safe now.
Are you okay?
Have you seen my cubs?
Did somebody say "cubs"?
We got cubs.
(CUBS LAUGHING HAPPILY)
FELIKS: Mom!
Oh, you're safe.
Thank you
for your help.
My name is Varya.
I've heard the Tree of Life
could be a safe place
to raise my cubs.
Is that true?
That's up to
the Queen.
Then I need to see her.
Of course, Varya.
We'll take you
to see her.
ULLU: Rani. Rani.
(HOOTING)
Queen Janna
needs you and the Night Pride.
Oh?
KION: Go ahead, Rani.
Me and the Lion Guard
will stay with Varya
and her cubs.
That won't do.
The Queen asked
for Kion too.
Me?
Go on.
We can handle this, Kion.
Yeah. We got everything
under control.
(CUBS GIGGLING)
Ow!
Don't worry.
I've got everything
under control.
Thanks, Fuli.
Thank you.
Let's go.
(CUBS GIGGLING)
Yeah!
(GRUNTS)
You okay, Little B?
Okay?
You kidding?
These cubs are great.
Ugh!
(INTENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
(MUSIC TEMPO SLOWS)
(SIGHS)
Oh.
What's going on?
Why are they
all here?
It's Grandmother Janna.
Something's wrong?
It seems
her time has come.
Oh.
Rani, Baliyo...
No. I don't want
to go in.
Baliyo.
Queen Janna
has asked to see you.
You must go to her.
We'll be with you
the whole time.
Rani?
Surak and Nirmala
are right.
We need to go in.
You can do this.
I'll be right
by your side.
Night Pride,
together?
Yeah,
little brother.
Night Pride,
together.
(SOLEMN MUSIC PLAYING)
(SIGHS SOFTLY)
Some water,
Queen Janna?
Thank you, Makini.
RANI: Hello?
Grandmother?
Rani.
Princess.
Is that you?
Yes, Grandmother.
It's me.
The whole
Night Pride
is here.
Hi, Grandmother.
Hello,
Queen Janna.
Mother.
How is she?
And is Kion with you as well?
Yes, Queen Janna.
I'm here.
(BREATH TREMBLING)
I am glad to have seen
the Roar return
to the Tree of Life.
Me, too.
I would have liked to see
your healing completed.
But, at least I know
you're here.
I hope you find peace.
And perhaps...
choose to stay.
Thank you,
Your Majesty.
For everything.
Baliyo?
I'm here.
Stay strong,
sweet Baliyo.
Your sister
will need your strength.
(SNIFFS)
Yes, Grandmother.
Nirmala.
We are so fortunate
you joined us
all those years ago.
Thank you, Your Majesty.
The healing powers of
the Tree of Life
belong to you now.
Continue helping all
who are hurting.
Of course. I promise.
And Surak, my son.
Mother.
Rani will lean on you
for wisdom.
Give it.
But let her find
her own way as well.
I will.
It is time, Rani.
I'm not ready.
You are.
But I still have
so much to learn.
Rani. You have everything
you need to be Queen.
And you won't be alone.
The Night Pride
will stand besides you.
And Makini,
your Royal Mjuzi,
will help guide you.
(SIGHS)
I'll do my best.
I know you will.
(CRYING SOFTLY)
(ALL SOBBING)
(WHIMPERING)
Goodbye, Grandmother.
RANI: (CRYING)
I'm so sorry, Rani.
Thank you, Kion.
(GROWLING AND BLEATING)
Someone has to tell them.
I'll do it.
Huh?
It's okay, Rani.
This is the duty
of your Royal Mjuzi.
My duty.
Thank you, Makini.
(INHALES)
Shwari.
(BLEATING)
Animals of the Tree of Life.
Queen Janna
has completed her journey
in the Circle of Life.
(ALL GASPING)
No.
I can't believe it.
(BLEATS SADLY)
It's okay. Shh.
As is tradition,
we will gather
at the Willows
to say goodbye
to Queen Janna.
(BLEATING)
The coronation ceremony,
to make Rani
the new Queen
of the Tree of Life,
will happen at sunset.
(SOLEMN MUSIC PLAYING)
Are you okay?
I will be.
(SIGHS)
I'll miss having her here.
I guess I thought
I'd have more time.
To learn from her.
My grandmother
was so wise.
She always knew
the right thing to do.
The right animals
to welcome
to the Tree of Life.
In fact, (CHUCKLES)
if she hadn't insisted,
I never would have
let you in.
What if I can't be
a good Queen?
When I first
got the Roar,
I didn't think
I could be leader
of the Lion Guard.
Really?
Yeah.
But then I found
the strength I needed
inside me.
You will too.
My grandfather Mufasa
helped me learn that.
Do you still talk
to your grandfather?
Not since I got this.
It makes me look like Scar.
The evil lion
who betrayed and...
Yes. My grandmother
told me the story
of what Scar
did to Mufasa.
Then you understand
why I can't face
my grandfather.
Not until
my scar is healed.
We all have
our scars, Kion.
Sisi ni sawa.
It's something
my grandmother says.
It means...
We're the same.
Yes.
She reminded me of that
when I wasn't sure
if we should welcome you
to the Tree of Life.
I'm glad she did.
I'm glad she did too.
She always said
exactly what
I needed to hear.
And talking to her
always made me feel better.
You know,
you might feel better
if you talked
to your grandfather.
Yeah. I might.
Thanks, Rani.
Queen Janna
isn't the only one
to know
just what to say.
You're a lot
like her.
Oh. (CHUCKLES)
Well, I...
I hope to be.
(SOFT MUSIC PLAYING)
I'm really
going to miss her.
We all will.
But Queen Janna
will always be
a part of us.
And we can
honor her
by sharing our
memories of her.
I wouldn't have
my sight back
without Queen Janna.
She was a great leader.
And she made us
feel welcome
when we first got to
the Tree of Life.
Yeah.
She was loved
by everyone.
(SNIFFS) She was,
wasn't she?
Yes. She was.
Nirmala?
What do we do now?
Now we prepare.
For the new queen's
coronation.
Cubs. Cubs.
Where are you?
Hmm. Big B.
I'll catch up
with you guys later.
Okay. See ya.
Varya? You okay?
Bunga. My cubs.
I looked away
for one moment
and they ran off.
I'll help you
find them.
Thank you.
Hakuna Matata!
You know,
in the Pride Lands,
they call me
Babysitter Bung...
(CUBS GIGGLING)
BUNGA: (MUFFLED)
Found them.
Oh! There you are.
(GRUNTS)
Anything else
I can help ya with?
Actually, yes.
I still need to find out
if my cubs and I
can stay here.
Can you take me to the Queen?
The Queen?
I'll take you to Rani.
She'll know
what to do.
Race ya!
Don't worry.
I'll help catch 'em.
(SIGHS)
It won't be the same
without you,
Grandmother Janna.
(SOFTLY HUMMING)
(SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC PLAYING)
Who's there?
Rani. Hi.
Makini?
Oh! I'm so glad
you're here.
I have something
to show you.
Okay.
Come on.
Right over here!
Whoa!
What is all this?
They're the stories
of the Tree of Life's past.
And these are
Queen Janna's stories.
Really?
Yep! I've been working on them
since the moment we got here.
See?
This one is from
the day we arrived.
(SPIRITUAL MUSIC PLAYING)
It was a lot of work.
But worth it.
Queen Janna
wanted you to have
all of her wisdom.
Whenever you needed it.
And here it is.
Thank you, Makini.
It was my honor.
I guess Queen Janna was right.
I really do have everything
I need to be Queen.
(MUFFLED GROWLING)
What's that?
I dunno.
Come on!
(GIGGLES)
(GROWLING)
(GRUNTS)
Hello again.
Hi.
(CHUCKLES)
BUNGA: Hey, cubs! Wait up.
Hey, Rani. Makini.
Sorry the cubs
got ahead of me.
It's okay, Bunga.
Bunga! Cubs!
There you are.
Hello, Varya.
Oh!
I'm sorry if my cubs
barged in on you.
They're just
excited to know
if we can stay here.
I know it's been
a hard day for you.
But you said earlier
it was up to the Queen.
And now you're the Queen.
Uh... Yes.
Of course.
You are welcome
to stay
at the Tree of Life.
Thank you.
So, what do we do next?
Yes.
Well, as Queen,
the first thing
I need to do
for newcomers
is...
uh...
Hmm.
MAKINI: Rani?
Right.
I might not be sure
what to do,
but I know how to find out.
Grandfather Mufasa?
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
I'm here, Kion.
It has been a long time.
I was worried
you had forgotten about me.
No, Grandfather.
I didn't forget about you.
It's just...
I was afraid to face you.
I've got this scar now.
And I was worried
that I might turn evil,
like Scar.
Especially since
I kept losing my temper
and losing control
of the Roar
on our way
to the Tree of Life.
Kion, you could have
talked to me anytime.
I told you
I would always
be here for you.
No matter what.
That hasn't changed.
And it never will.
Thank you, Grandfather.
That makes me feel
better.
I'm sorry
I stayed away.
I promise
I won't be afraid
to talk to you again.
Good.
I missed you.
I missed you too.
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
You cubs
sure are heavy.
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
Here.
This forest
should be a perfect home
for you
and your cubs.
Thank you.
This does look perfect.
Who are you?
Hello.
I'm Varya.
We're your
new neighbors.
I don't think so.
A word?
Are you sure
that tiger family
living here
is a good idea?
Don't worry.
They know the rules.
They've promised
to respect
the Circle of Life.
Are you sure
you know the rules?
Well, I'm still learning,
but I'm willing
to give them a chance.
Varya came here
seeking safety
for her cubs.
I don't think
she'd risk
being kicked out
by disrespecting
the Circle of Life.
(SIGHS)
Okay.
If you say the tigers
are welcome here,
then so do we.
Everyone,
the tigers
are welcome,
by decree
of Queen Rani.
Over here, Varya.
There's a nice clearing
your cubs might like.
Oh, wonderful.
Thank You.
And thank you.
My cubs and I
are so grateful
to be home.
You're welcome.
Come along, cubs.
Hear that?
Time to say goodbye.
CUBS: Bye, Bunga.
(SIGHS IN RELIEF)
Cubs are a lotta work.
Thanks for helping
with them today, Bunga.
Hakuna Matata!
Happy to help,
Your Majesty.
I don't think
I'll ever get used
to hearing that.
Well, you better.
After the coronation,
that's what everyone
will be calling ya.
My coronation!
It's at sunset.
Wait for me, your Majesty!
MAKINI: Welcome
to the Coronation
of the Queen
of the Tree of Life!
(ALL CHEERING)
♪ Long live the Queen
♪ We lift our voices up
in praise
♪ With wisdom, patience,
strength and guile
♪ Watch over us all the days
ALL:
♪ Our hearts and voices sing
♪ All praise and glory bring
♪ Goodwill and joy
in everything
♪ Long live, long live,
Long live the Queen
♪ Long live the Queen
♪ To rule the Tree of Life
♪ Protect our land
and keep it free
♪ From sorrow and from strife
♪ Our hearts and voices...
♪ Hearts and voices sing
♪ All praise and glory...
♪ Praise and glory bring
♪ Goodwill and joy...
♪ In everything
♪ Long live, long live,
Long live the Queen
♪ Long live the Queen
♪ Long live, long live,
Long live the Queen
♪ Long live the Queen
♪ Long live, long live,
Long live the Queen
♪ Long live the Queen
♪ Long live,
Long live the Queen ♪
(ALL CHEERING)
It is time.
(SOLEMN INSTRUMENTAL
MUSIC PLAYING)
Queen Janna
would be proud.
Animals of
the Tree of Life,
it is my honor
to present to you,
Queen Rani!
(ALL CHEERING)
That's my sister.
BOTH: Zuka Zama!
Long live the Queen!
ALL: (CHANTING)
ALL: Long live the Queen!
Long live the Queen!
(SOLEMN INSTRUMENTAL
MUSIC PLAYING)
Grandmother Janna?
You were right.
I'm ready.
(CLOSING THEME MUSIC)